# pandas-challenge
The purpose of this analysis is to help educators, administrators, and local governments/policy makers make informed and accurate decisions in order to improve the educational achievements of the students in their district. The data was analyzed based on student grades (math, reading, or both combined), individual schools, whether the school was a charter or district school, as well as funding and school size. Overall, students in charter schools have higher average scores and passing rates in both math and reading when compared to district schools. Based on the data it is evident that charter schools tend to allocate more funding per student whereas, district schools have an overall higher budget due to higher student populations. This may contribute to the reason charter schools tend to perform better in terms of higher average grades and passing rates due to more funding allocated per student thus, more resources per student. So, while district schools have a larger budget, this isn’t necessarily being allocated solely towards student success resources. Furthermore, students tended to do better in reading than math, with the average reading score being 82.41 while the average math score was 79.94. Also, the reading scores had a more even distribution with the scores being in the range of 76-89. In summary, it seems that there are other factors that impact the student’s performances such as quality of the curriculum, the ratio of teacher to student, and demographics. However, while the funding is lower for charter schools, their performance is higher indicating quality over quantity in this dataset.
